Attention:
- Do not edit this file in text editors like Word. Use a plain text editor only. In case of doubt, you can use Spyder as a text editor.
- Do not change the structure of this file. Just fill in your answers in the places provided (After the R#: tag).
- You can add lines in the spaces for your answers but your answers should be brief and straight to the point.
- You can include references to images or html files such as the reports generated with clusters. To do this, simply include this document in the folder with the reports or images and refer them in the text by the file name in an isolated line. For example, the line

test.png

refers to a test.png image file in the same folder as this document.

QUESTIONS:


Q1: After extracting the attributes, did you standardize or normalize the values? Justify your decision.
R1:Our decision was to standardize the values to ensure that, by having the features in the same unity and on an
even playing field, the predictions and the clusters calculations wouldn't be influenced by disperce values.


Q2: Explain how you found the parameters for the clustering algorithms.
R2:We filtered the labelled data into the the sets we were working with.
Then, with the A-NOVA F-test we computed the best classification value for each feature.
Knowing the best features do select, we filtered the labelled indexes.
Then, for each clustering algorithm, we evaluated the purity, precision, recall, f1 and random index to find the
best parameters.


Q3: Describe your analysis of the parameters using the internal and external indicators referred in the assignment page. Include the  plots for the indicator values ​​(indicating the image name of each plot in one line in your answer) as a function of the parameters and explain how you chose the ranges for examining these parameters. Indicate, with justification, what conclusions you can draw from this analysis.
R3: With the plots "Spectral Analysis.png", K-Means "Analysis.png",
 "Hierarchical agglomerative Analysis.png", we were able to identify to each algorithm the best
 number of clusters and its´ best scores. As we explained in the previous anwser, and thanks to the
 known purity score, we can note on the generated plots that for certain ranges the rand index values 
stagnate. We decided the appropriate range based would be starting from 2 to 20.


Q4: Select some of the parameter values ​​tested in the question above and examine the corresponding clusters more closely, generating the HTML file with the images. Explain how you selected these parameter values, discuss the different options and propose a recommendation that could help the biologists' task of classifying cells and rejecting segmentation errors.
R4: With the reduced features, we proceeded to compute the predicted values with each algorithm,
then with the results of each distribuiton we generated the html files with the indexes and labels that resulted
from these computations. With these generated files, biologists could base their classification in a 
larger number of groups (more detail) or in a smaler sample.



Q5: Discuss advantages or problems with the algorithms analysed for the purpose of helping biologists to organize these images, considering your theoretical knowledge of these algorithms as well as the results you obtained in your work.
R5: With these algorithms there is the possibility for biologists to base their classifying on more or
less complex number of features, choosing the most convenient algorithm. A disadvange could be the saturation
of groups it generates creating some possible ambiguity among them.


Q6: Consider other clustering algorithms embedded in the Scikit-Learn library. Choose one and apply it to this problem, optimizing the parameters you deem appropriate in the way that you find adequate. Justify your choices and discuss whether this option would yield more useful results for biologists.
R6: We decided to use the OPTICS algorithm and we tried different min_samples parameter and scored each one
with the same metrics as the previous algorithms and we concluded that this algorithm is worst then the others,
due to the fact that this algorithm is based on dencity of samples.


(Optional) Q7: Explain how you selected the best attributes for the clustering phase. In particular, indicate the visualization methods used to explore the extracted attributes and any statistical tests used.
R7: We used the same attribute selection as the first algorithms, we used the f_classif to select the best
attributes with the SelectKbest from sklearn.


(Optional) Q8: Implement the Bissecting K-Means hierarchical clustering algorithm as described in the assignment page and Lecture 19. Examine and discuss the results and their application to the problem of helping the biologists select and classify cell images.
R8: We found that this algorithm is faster, and it can split the biologists data into groups instead of 
forming groups by joining each one.

